README.md, before:

# DiscordNotifications

This is an extension for [MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki) that sends notifications of actions in your Wiki-like editing, adding, or removing a page into [Discord](https://discord.com/) channel.

## Supported MediaWiki operations to send notifications

* Article is added, removed, moved, or edited.
* Article protection settings are changed.
* Article is imported.
* New user is added.
* User is blocked.
* User groups are changed.
* File is uploaded.
* ... and each notification can be individually enabled or disabled :)

## Language Support

This extension supports language localisation. Notifications are being sent in the language set to your localSettings.php file in the variable `$wgLanguageCode`.

Want to translate this extension to your language? Just visit [translatewiki.net](https://translatewiki.net/wiki/Special:Translate/mwgithub-mediawiki-universalomega-discordnotifications) and follow the guides! :)

## Requirements

* [cURL](http://curl.haxx.se/) or ability to use PHP function `file_get_contents` for sending the data. Defaults to cURL. See the configuration parameter `$wgDiscordSendMethod` below to switch between cURL and file_get_contents.
* MediaWiki 1.39+
* Apache should have NE (NoEscape) flag on to prevent issues in URLs. By default, you should have this enabled.

## How to install

1) Create a new Discord Webhook for your channel. You can create and manage webhooks for your channel by clicking the settings icon next to the channel name in the Discord app. Read more from here: https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668

2) After setting up the Webhook you will get a Webhook URL. Copy that URL as you will need it in step 4.

3) [Download the latest release of this extension](https://github.com/Universal-Omega/DiscordNotifications/archive/master.zip), uncompress the archive, and move folder `DiscordNotifications` into your `mediawiki_installation/extensions` folder. (And instead of manually downloading the latest version, you could also just git clone this repository to that same extensions folder).

4) Add the settings listed below in your `localSettings.php`. Note that it is mandatory to set these settings for this extension to work:

```php
wfLoadExtension( 'DiscordNotifications' );

// Required. Your Discord webhook URL. Read more from here: https://support.discordapp.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668
$wgDiscordIncomingWebhookUrl = '';

// Required. Name the message will appear to be sent from. Change this to whatever you wish it to be.
$wgDiscordFromName = $wgSitename;

// Avatar to use for messages. If blank uses the webhook's default avatar.
$wgDiscordAvatarUrl = '';

// URL into your MediaWiki installation with the trailing /.
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrl = 'http://your_wiki_url/';

// Wiki script name. Leave this to the default one if you do not have URL rewriting enabled.
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEnding = 'index.php?title=';

// What method will be used to send the data to the Discord server. By default, this is 'curl' which only works if you have the curl extension enabled. There have been cases where the VisualEditor extension does not work with the curl method, so in that case, the recommended solution is to use the file_get_contents method. This can be: 'curl' or 'file_get_contents'. Default: 'curl'.
$wgDiscordSendMethod = 'curl';
```

5) Enjoy the notifications in your Discord room!

## Additional options

These options can be set after including your plugin in your `localSettings.php` file.

### Customize request call method (Fix extension not working with VisualEditor)

By default, this extension uses curl to send the requests to slack's API. If you use VisualEditor and get unknown errors, do not have curl enabled on your server, or notice other problems, the recommended solution is to change the method to file_get_contents.

```php
$wgDiscordSendMethod = 'file_get_contents';
```

### Send notifications to multiple channels

You can add more webhook URLs that you want to send notifications to by adding them to this array:

```php
$wgDiscordAdditionalIncomingWebhookUrls = [
	'https://yourUrlOne.com',
	'https://yourUrlTwo...',
];
```

### Remove additional links from user and article pages

By default user and article links in the notification message will get additional links for ex. to block the user, view article history, etc. You can disable either one of those by setting the settings below to false.

```php
// If this is true, pages will get additional links in the notification message (edit | delete | history).
$wgDiscordIncludePageUrls = true;

// If this is true, users will get additional links in the notification message (block | groups | talk | contribs).
$wgDiscordIncludeUserUrls = true;

// If this is true, all minor edits made to articles will not be submitted to Discord.
$wgDiscordIgnoreMinorEdits = false;
```

### Enable new users extra information

By default, we don't show the full name, email, or IP address of the newly created user in the notification. You can enable these settings using the settings below.

```php
// If this is true, the newly created user's full name is added to the notification.
$wgDiscordShowNewUserFullName = true;

// If this is true, the newly created user email address is added to the notification.
$wgDiscordShowNewUserEmail = true;

// If this is true, the newly created user IP address is added to the notification.
$wgDiscordShowNewUserIP = true;
```

### Show edit size

By default, we show the size of the edit. You can hide this information with the setting below.

```php
$wgDiscordIncludeDiffSize = false;
```

### Disable notifications from certain user roles

By default notifications from all users will be sent to your Discord room. If you wish to exclude users in a certain group to not send notifications of any actions, you can set the group with the setting below.

```php
// If this is set, actions by users with this permission won't cause alerts
$wgDiscordExcludedPermission = '';
```

### Disable notifications from certain pages/namespaces

You can exclude notifications from certain namespaces/articles by adding them to this array. Note: This targets all pages starting with the name.

```php
// Actions (add, edit, modify) won't be notified to Discord room from articles starting with these names
$wgDiscordExcludeNotificationsFrom = [
	'User:',
	'Weirdgroup',
];
```

### Show non-public article deletions

By default, we do not show non-public article deletion notifications. You can change this using the parameter below.

```php
$wgDiscordNotificationShowSuppressed = true;
```

### Actions to notify of

MediaWiki actions that will be sent notifications of into Discord. Set desired options to false to disable notifications of those actions.

```php
// New user added to MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationNewUser = true;

// Autocreated users
$wgDiscordNotificationIncludeAutocreatedUsers = true;

// User or IP blocked in MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationBlockedUser = true;

// User groups changed in MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationUserGroupsChanged = true;

// Article added to MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationAddedArticle = true;

// Article removed from MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationRemovedArticle = true;

// Article moved under a new title in MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationMovedArticle = true;

// Article edited in MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationEditedArticle = true;

// File uploaded
$wgDiscordNotificationFileUpload = true;

// Article protection settings changed
$wgDiscordNotificationProtectedArticle = true;

// Action on Flow Boards (experimental)
$wgDiscordNotificationFlow = true;

// Article has been imported
$wgDiscordNotificationAfterImportPage = true;
```

## Additional MediaWiki URL Settings

Should any of these default MediaWiki system page URLs differ in your installation, change them here.

```php
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingUserRights = 'Special%3AUserRights&user=';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingBlockUser = 'Special:Block/';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingUserPage = 'User:';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingUserTalkPage = 'User_talk:';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingUserContributions = 'Special:Contributions/';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingBlockList = 'Special:BlockList';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingEditArticle = 'action=edit';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingDeleteArticle = 'action=delete';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingHistory = 'action=history';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingDiff = 'diff=prev&oldid=';
```

## Experimental CVT Feed

As of version 3.0.0 of DiscordNotifications, it now supports experimental CVT (countervandalism) monitoring.
You can use the below configuration options to configure it.

**Note**: These experimental configuration variables may be removed, renamed, or modified without warning.

| Configuration | Default | Description |
|---------------|---------|-------------|
| `$wgDiscordEnableExperimentalCVTFeatures`  | false | Set to true or none of the experimental CVT features will be enabled. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalCVTMatchLimit`      | 250   | Configure the number of characters to display before and after the found match in the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalCVTMatchFilter`     | []    | An array of regexes to find matches, for sending to the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalCVTSendAllIPEdits`  | true  | Sends all edits by IP users to the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalCVTSendAllNewUsers` | true  | Sends all new user account creations (not autocreations) to the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalFeedLanguageCode`   | ''    | The language code to force the experimental CVT feed localisation too. If an empty string, it will use the default content language of the wiki the notification is from. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalWebhook`            | ''    | The Discord incoming webhook URL to use for the experimental CVT feed. If an empty string, the experimental CVT feed features will be disabled. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalNewUsersWebhook`    | ''    | The Discord incoming webhook URL to use for an experimental new users feed (not including autocreations). If this is set, they will be sent here rather than the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordNotificationCentralAuthWikiUrl` | ''    | The URL for the wiki to use in the CentralAuth URL. The CentralAuth URL will only appear in the experimental CVT feed. If set to an empty string, no CentralAuth link will appear. |

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE.md)

## Issues/Ideas/Comments

* Feel free to use the [Issues](https://github.com/Universal-Omega/DiscordNotifications/issues) section on GitHub for this project to submit any issues/ideas/comments! :)
* You can also contact CosmicAlpha#3274 on Discord for any issues you may encounter.

Commit message:

Add configuration variables to exclude bots (#63)

README.md, after:

# DiscordNotifications

This is an extension for [MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki) that sends notifications of actions in your Wiki-like editing, adding, or removing a page into [Discord](https://discord.com/) channel.

## Supported MediaWiki operations to send notifications

* Article is added, removed, moved, or edited.
* Article protection settings are changed.
* Article is imported.
* New user is added.
* User is blocked.
* User groups are changed.
* File is uploaded.
* ... and each notification can be individually enabled or disabled :)

## Language Support

This extension supports language localisation. Notifications are being sent in the language set to your localSettings.php file in the variable `$wgLanguageCode`.

Want to translate this extension to your language? Just visit [translatewiki.net](https://translatewiki.net/wiki/Special:Translate/mwgithub-mediawiki-universalomega-discordnotifications) and follow the guides! :)

## Requirements

* [cURL](http://curl.haxx.se/) or ability to use PHP function `file_get_contents` for sending the data. Defaults to cURL. See the configuration parameter `$wgDiscordSendMethod` below to switch between cURL and file_get_contents.
* MediaWiki 1.39+
* Apache should have NE (NoEscape) flag on to prevent issues in URLs. By default, you should have this enabled.

## How to install

1) Create a new Discord Webhook for your channel. You can create and manage webhooks for your channel by clicking the settings icon next to the channel name in the Discord app. Read more from here: https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668

2) After setting up the Webhook you will get a Webhook URL. Copy that URL as you will need it in step 4.

3) [Download the latest release of this extension](https://github.com/Universal-Omega/DiscordNotifications/archive/master.zip), uncompress the archive, and move folder `DiscordNotifications` into your `mediawiki_installation/extensions` folder. (And instead of manually downloading the latest version, you could also just git clone this repository to that same extensions folder).

4) Add the settings listed below in your `localSettings.php`. Note that it is mandatory to set these settings for this extension to work:

```php
wfLoadExtension( 'DiscordNotifications' );

// Required. Your Discord webhook URL. Read more from here: https://support.discordapp.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668
$wgDiscordIncomingWebhookUrl = '';

// Required. Name the message will appear to be sent from. Change this to whatever you wish it to be.
$wgDiscordFromName = $wgSitename;

// Avatar to use for messages. If blank uses the webhook's default avatar.
$wgDiscordAvatarUrl = '';

// URL into your MediaWiki installation with the trailing /.
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrl = 'http://your_wiki_url/';

// Wiki script name. Leave this to the default one if you do not have URL rewriting enabled.
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEnding = 'index.php?title=';

// What method will be used to send the data to the Discord server. By default, this is 'curl' which only works if you have the curl extension enabled. There have been cases where the VisualEditor extension does not work with the curl method, so in that case, the recommended solution is to use the file_get_contents method. This can be: 'curl' or 'file_get_contents'. Default: 'curl'.
$wgDiscordSendMethod = 'curl';
```

5) Enjoy the notifications in your Discord room!

## Additional options

These options can be set after including your plugin in your `localSettings.php` file.

### Customize request call method (Fix extension not working with VisualEditor)

By default, this extension uses curl to send the requests to slack's API. If you use VisualEditor and get unknown errors, do not have curl enabled on your server, or notice other problems, the recommended solution is to change the method to file_get_contents.

```php
$wgDiscordSendMethod = 'file_get_contents';
```

### Send notifications to multiple channels

You can add more webhook URLs that you want to send notifications to by adding them to this array:

```php
$wgDiscordAdditionalIncomingWebhookUrls = [
	'https://yourUrlOne.com',
	'https://yourUrlTwo...',
];
```

### Remove additional links from user and article pages

By default user and article links in the notification message will get additional links for ex. to block the user, view article history, etc. You can disable either one of those by setting the settings below to false.

```php
// If this is true, pages will get additional links in the notification message (edit | delete | history).
$wgDiscordIncludePageUrls = true;

// If this is true, users will get additional links in the notification message (block | groups | talk | contribs).
$wgDiscordIncludeUserUrls = true;

// If this is true, all minor edits made to articles will not be submitted to Discord.
$wgDiscordIgnoreMinorEdits = false;
```

### Enable new users extra information

By default, we don't show the full name, email, or IP address of the newly created user in the notification. You can enable these settings using the settings below.

```php
// If this is true, the newly created user's full name is added to the notification.
$wgDiscordShowNewUserFullName = true;

// If this is true, the newly created user email address is added to the notification.
$wgDiscordShowNewUserEmail = true;

// If this is true, the newly created user IP address is added to the notification.
$wgDiscordShowNewUserIP = true;
```

### Show edit size

By default, we show the size of the edit. You can hide this information with the setting below.

```php
$wgDiscordIncludeDiffSize = false;
```

### Disable notifications from certain user roles

By default notifications from all users will be sent to your Discord room. If you wish to exclude users in a certain group to not send notifications of any actions, you can set the group with the setting below.

```php
// If this is set, actions by users with this permission won't cause alerts
$wgDiscordExcludedPermission = '';

// If this is enabled, bots will be excluded from all feeds
$wgDiscordExcludeBots = false;
```

### Disable notifications from certain pages/namespaces

You can exclude notifications from certain namespaces/articles by adding them to this array. Note: This targets all pages starting with the name.

```php
// Actions (add, edit, modify) won't be notified to Discord room from articles starting with these names
$wgDiscordExcludeNotificationsFrom = [
	'User:',
	'Weirdgroup',
];
```

### Show non-public article deletions

By default, we do not show non-public article deletion notifications. You can change this using the parameter below.

```php
$wgDiscordNotificationShowSuppressed = true;
```

### Actions to notify of

MediaWiki actions that will be sent notifications of into Discord. Set desired options to false to disable notifications of those actions.

```php
// New user added to MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationNewUser = true;

// Autocreated users
$wgDiscordNotificationIncludeAutocreatedUsers = true;

// User or IP blocked in MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationBlockedUser = true;

// User groups changed in MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationUserGroupsChanged = true;

// Article added to MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationAddedArticle = true;

// Article removed from MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationRemovedArticle = true;

// Article moved under a new title in MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationMovedArticle = true;

// Article edited in MediaWiki
$wgDiscordNotificationEditedArticle = true;

// File uploaded
$wgDiscordNotificationFileUpload = true;

// Article protection settings changed
$wgDiscordNotificationProtectedArticle = true;

// Action on Flow Boards (experimental)
$wgDiscordNotificationFlow = true;

// Article has been imported
$wgDiscordNotificationAfterImportPage = true;
```

## Additional MediaWiki URL Settings

Should any of these default MediaWiki system page URLs differ in your installation, change them here.

```php
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingUserRights = 'Special%3AUserRights&user=';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingBlockUser = 'Special:Block/';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingUserPage = 'User:';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingUserTalkPage = 'User_talk:';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingUserContributions = 'Special:Contributions/';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingBlockList = 'Special:BlockList';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingEditArticle = 'action=edit';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingDeleteArticle = 'action=delete';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingHistory = 'action=history';
$wgDiscordNotificationWikiUrlEndingDiff = 'diff=prev&oldid=';
```

## Experimental CVT Feed

As of version 3.0.0 of DiscordNotifications, it now supports experimental CVT (countervandalism) monitoring.
You can use the below configuration options to configure it.

**Note**: These experimental configuration variables may be removed, renamed, or modified without warning.

| Configuration | Default | Description |
|---------------|---------|-------------|
| `$wgDiscordEnableExperimentalCVTFeatures`  | false | Set to true or none of the experimental CVT features will be enabled. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalCVTMatchLimit`      | 250   | Configure the number of characters to display before and after the found match in the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalCVTMatchFilter`     | []    | An array of regexes to find matches, for sending to the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalCVTSendAllIPEdits`  | true  | Sends all edits by IP users to the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalCVTSendAllNewUsers` | true  | Sends all new user account creations (not autocreations) to the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExpermentalCVTExcludeBots`      | true  | Whether or not to exclude bots from the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalFeedLanguageCode`   | ''    | The language code to force the experimental CVT feed localisation too. If an empty string, it will use the default content language of the wiki the notification is from. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalWebhook`            | ''    | The Discord incoming webhook URL to use for the experimental CVT feed. If an empty string, the experimental CVT feed features will be disabled. |
| `$wgDiscordExperimentalNewUsersWebhook`    | ''    | The Discord incoming webhook URL to use for an experimental new users feed (not including autocreations). If this is set, they will be sent here rather than the experimental CVT feed. |
| `$wgDiscordNotificationCentralAuthWikiUrl` | ''    | The URL for the wiki to use in the CentralAuth URL. The CentralAuth URL will only appear in the experimental CVT feed. If set to an empty string, no CentralAuth link will appear. |

## License

[MIT License](LICENSE.md)

## Issues/Ideas/Comments

* Feel free to use the [Issues](https://github.com/Universal-Omega/DiscordNotifications/issues) section on GitHub for this project to submit any issues/ideas/comments! :)
* You can also contact CosmicAlpha#3274 on Discord for any issues you may encounter.
